README.md, before:

Backstubber
===========

Simple yet powerful backend stubs.

Installation
------------

    $ npm install backstubber

Install globally with `npm install -g backstubber` to use the `backstubber` CLI binary (coming soon).

Features
--------

Backstubber lets you easily stub any JSON backend, e.g.:

* Serve JSON files directly from your file system
* Generate dynamic data using functions
* Merge actual service responses with your stubs, adding or modifying attributes

Usage
-----

Create your app with `backstubber()` and mount your endpoint directories, e.g.:

````javascript
var backstubber = require('backstubber');

backstubber()
    .mount(__dirname + '/simple')
    .mount(__dirname + '/merge', 'https://api.github.com')
    .mount(__dirname + '/form', 'http://httpbin.org')
    .mount('*', 'https://api.github.com')
    .listen(3333);
````

In your endpoint directories, create JSON or JavaScript files named after the HTTP verbs you want your service to respond to, e.g.:

    example/
    ├── app.js
    ├── form
    │   └── post
    │       └── post.json
    └── simple
        ├── faker
        │   └── get.js
        ├── hello
        │   └── get.json
        └── random
            └── get.js

Example `get.js`:

````javascript
{
    "_$$" : false,
    "awesome" : true,
    "followers" : 424242
}
````

Original output:

````json
{
    "login": "bcluca",
    "url": "https://api.github.com/users/bcluca",
    "type": "User",
    "name": "Luca Bernardo Ciddio",
    "company": "YellowPages.com",
    "followers": 11
}
````

Stubbed output:

````json
{
    "login": "bcluca",
    "url": "https://api.github.com/users/bcluca",
    "type": "User",
    "name": "Luca Bernardo Ciddio",
    "company": "YellowPages.com",
    "followers": 424242,
    "awesome": true
}
````

The `followers` attribute is modified and a new `awesome` attribute is added.

Merging with `_$$`
------------------

If you add a service url to your `mount()` calls, your stub will proxy all calls to an actual service and merge the responses. In your endpoint file, you can reference the original response with the `_$$` attribute.

Setting `_$$` to a falsy value (e.g. `false` or `0`) merges your stub data on top of the original response. A truthy value (e.g. `true` or `1`) makes the original attributes "win" over your stub data.

`_$$` is falsy by default, meaning that all stubs will overwrite the original response if no `_$$` attributes are present.

The `rate_limit` example illustrates the use of merging overrides:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    _$$ : 1,              // original attrs merged over the stub
    resources : {
        _$$ : 1,          // same here
        search : {
            _$$ : 0,      // this allows the stub to overwrite foo and limit
            foo : 'bar',
            limit : 42
        },
        core : 42         // this gets replaced by the original core attr
    },
    rate : {
        _$$ : 0,          // limit will be 42 in the final response
        limit : 42
    }
};
````

`_$$` also works with arrays, e.g.:

````json
["_$$", {
    "foo" : "bar"
}]
````

You can remove attributes from the original response by setting them to `undefined`, e.g.:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    _$$ : false,
    documentation_url : undefined           // this attr will be removed
};
````

Note that this is only allowed in JavaScript stubs. If you are using JSON for your stubs and need this functionality, please use JavaScript instead.

You can also have full control over merging by referencing the original response inside functions, e.g.:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    _$$ : true,                             // response data takes priority
    message : function (data) {             // custom merging, _$$ ignored
        return 'Original message: ' + data; // uses original attr data
    },
    documentation_url : 'new url'           // _$$ not ignored here
};
````

Functions can also be used to define merging behavior, e.g.:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    _$$ : function (data) {
        console.log(data);          // original data also available
        return Math.random() < 0.5; // dynamic merge
    },
    message : 'Updated message'     // randomly merged
};
````

Request object
--------------

In addition to the current `data` chunk, you can use the original request object `req` inside functions, e.g.:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    userAgent : function (data, req) {
        return req.headers['user-agent'];
    },
    query : function (data, req) {
        return req.query;
    }
};
````

Example app
-----------

Run with:

    $ node example/app.js

Test endpoints:

Endpoint | Description
--- | ---
`GET /hello`             | Simple _Hello!_ message
`GET /random`            | Dynamic output using functions
`GET /faker`             | Example using Faker generators
`GET /`                  | Simple proxy to the github API
`POST /post`             | Simple `POST` example
`GET /orgs/github`       | Merging example using JavaScript
`GET /users/bcluca`      | Merging example using JSON
`GET /rate_limit`        | Example showing merging overrides
`GET /users/bcluca/orgs` | Array merging example
`GET /fn`                | Using response data in functions
`GET /events`            | Root handler example
`GET /dynamic`           | Dynamic merging example
`GET /req?foo=bar`       | Example using the request object

Commit message:

Refactored proxy mode into its own method

README.md, after:

Backstubber
===========

Simple yet powerful backend stubs.

Installation
------------

    $ npm install backstubber

Install globally with `npm install -g backstubber` to use the `backstubber` CLI binary (coming soon).

Features
--------

Backstubber lets you easily stub any JSON backend, e.g.:

* Serve JSON files directly from your file system
* Generate dynamic data using functions
* Merge actual service responses with your stubs, adding or modifying attributes

Usage
-----

Create your app with `backstubber()` and mount your fake endpoints, optionally proxying all unhandled calls to a real service, e.g.:

````javascript
var backstubber = require('backstubber');

backstubber()
    .mount(__dirname + '/simple')
    .mount(__dirname + '/merge', 'https://api.github.com')
    .mount(__dirname + '/form', 'http://httpbin.org')
    .proxy('*', 'https://api.github.com')
    .listen(3333);
````

In each endpoint directory, create JSON or JavaScript files named after the HTTP verbs you want your service to respond to, e.g.:

    example/
    ├── app.js
    ├── form
    │   └── post
    │       └── post.json
    └── simple
        ├── faker
        │   └── get.js
        ├── hello
        │   └── get.json
        └── random
            └── get.js

Example `get.js`:

````javascript
{
    "_$$" : false,
    "awesome" : true,
    "followers" : 424242
}
````

Original output:

````json
{
    "login": "bcluca",
    "url": "https://api.github.com/users/bcluca",
    "type": "User",
    "name": "Luca Bernardo Ciddio",
    "company": "YellowPages.com",
    "followers": 11
}
````

Stubbed output:

````json
{
    "login": "bcluca",
    "url": "https://api.github.com/users/bcluca",
    "type": "User",
    "name": "Luca Bernardo Ciddio",
    "company": "YellowPages.com",
    "followers": 424242,
    "awesome": true
}
````

The `followers` attribute is modified and a new `awesome` attribute is added.

Merging with `_$$`
------------------

If you add a service url to your `mount()` calls, your stub will proxy all calls to an actual service and merge the responses. In your endpoint file, you can reference the original response with the `_$$` attribute.

Setting `_$$` to a falsy value (e.g. `false` or `0`) merges your stub data on top of the original response. A truthy value (e.g. `true` or `1`) makes the original attributes "win" over your stub data.

`_$$` is falsy by default, meaning that all stubs will overwrite the original response if no `_$$` attributes are present.

The `rate_limit` example illustrates the use of merging overrides:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    _$$ : 1,              // original attrs merged over the stub
    resources : {
        _$$ : 1,          // same here
        search : {
            _$$ : 0,      // this allows the stub to overwrite foo and limit
            foo : 'bar',
            limit : 42
        },
        core : 42         // this gets replaced by the original core attr
    },
    rate : {
        _$$ : 0,          // limit will be 42 in the final response
        limit : 42
    }
};
````

`_$$` also works with arrays, e.g.:

````json
["_$$", {
    "foo" : "bar"
}]
````

You can remove attributes from the original response by setting them to `undefined`, e.g.:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    _$$ : false,
    documentation_url : undefined           // this attr will be removed
};
````

Note that this is only allowed in JavaScript stubs. If you are using JSON for your stubs and need this functionality, please use JavaScript instead.

You can also have full control over merging by referencing the original response inside functions, e.g.:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    _$$ : true,                             // response data takes priority
    message : function (data) {             // custom merging, _$$ ignored
        return 'Original message: ' + data; // uses original attr data
    },
    documentation_url : 'new url'           // _$$ not ignored here
};
````

Functions can also be used to define merging behavior, e.g.:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    _$$ : function (data) {
        console.log(data);          // original data also available
        return Math.random() < 0.5; // dynamic merge
    },
    message : 'Updated message'     // randomly merged
};
````

Request object
--------------

In addition to the current `data` chunk, you can use the original request object `req` inside functions, e.g.:

````javascript
module.exports = {
    userAgent : function (data, req) {
        return req.headers['user-agent'];
    },
    query : function (data, req) {
        return req.query;
    }
};
````

Example app
-----------

Run with:

    $ node example/app.js

Test endpoints:

Endpoint | Description
--- | ---
`GET /hello`             | Simple _Hello!_ message
`GET /random`            | Dynamic output using functions
`GET /faker`             | Example using Faker generators
`GET /`                  | Simple proxy to the github API
`POST /post`             | Simple `POST` example
`GET /orgs/github`       | Merging example using JavaScript
`GET /users/bcluca`      | Merging example using JSON
`GET /rate_limit`        | Example showing merging overrides
`GET /users/bcluca/orgs` | Array merging example
`GET /fn`                | Using response data in functions
`GET /events`            | Root handler example
`GET /dynamic`           | Dynamic merging example
`GET /req?foo=bar`       | Example using the request object
